Refresh Tokens (#7251)
auth0/docs: articles/tokens/refresh-token/current/index.md

---
# Refresh Token

A **Refresh Token** contains the information required to obtain a new [Access Token](/tokens/overview-access-tokens) or [ID Token](/tokens/id-token).

Typically, a user needs a new Access Token when gaining access to a resource for the first time, or after the previous Access Token granted to them expires.

Refresh Tokens are:

> * Are subject to strict storage requirements to ensure that they are not leaked

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Subject to strict storage requirements to ensure that they are not leaked
```

1. Enabling the **OIDC Conformant** flag for an Application
2. Passing an `audience` to the `/authorize` endpoint of the Authentication API 

For more information on our authentication pipeline, see [Introducing OIDC-Conformant Authentication](/api-auth/intro).
:::

## Overview

Auth0 can issue an Access Token and/or an ID Token in response to an [authentication request](/api-auth). You can use Access Tokens to make authenticated calls to a secured API, while the ID Token contains user profile attributes represented in the form of *claims*. Both are [JWTs](/jwt) and therefore have expiration dates indicated using the `exp` claim, as well as security measures, like signatures.

A Refresh Token allows the application to ask Auth0 to issue a new Access Token or ID Token without having to re-authenticate the user. This will work as long as the Refresh Token has not been revoked.

## Restrictions on Refresh Token Usage

You can only get a Refresh Token if you are implementing the [Regular Web App Login Flow](/flows/concepts/regular-web-app-login-flow), [Native/Mobile Login Flow](/flows/concepts/mobile-login-flow), or [Resource Owner Password Grant](/api-auth/grant/password).

> A Single-Page Application (normally implementing [Single-Page Login Flow](/flows/concepts/single-page-login-flow)) should not, under any circumstances, get a Refresh Token. The reason for that is the sensitivity of this piece of information. You can think of the token as a user credential since a Refresh Token allows a user to remain authenticated essentially forever. Therefore you cannot have this information in a browser; it must be stored securely.

Reviewer: This sounds odd to me (maybe it's just me). I'd maybe go for something like: 

```suggestion
A Single-Page Application (normally implementing [Single-Page Login Flow](/flows/concepts/single-page-login-flow)) should not ever receive a Refresh Token. A Refresh Token is essentially a user credential which allows a user to remain authenticated indefinitely. This sensitive information should be stored securely and not exposed client-side in a browser.
```

(and then maybe a link to something about storing tokens? :smiling-imp:)

If you are implementing an SPA using [Single-Page Login Flow](/flows/concepts/single-page-login-flow) and you need to renew a token, the only secure option for doing so is to use [Silent Authentication](/api-auth/tutorials/silent-authentication).

> If you've limited offline access to your API, a safeguard configured via the **Allow Offline Access** switch on the [API Settings](${manage_url}/#/apis), Auth0 will not return a Refresh Token for the API (even if you included the `offline_access` scope in your request).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you limit offline access to your API, a safeguard configured via the **Allow Offline Access** switch on the [API Settings](${manage_url}/#/apis), Auth0 will not return a Refresh Token for the API (even if you include the `offline_access` scope in your request).
```

```text
GET https://${account.namespace}/api/v2/device-credentials?
  type=refresh_token
  &client_id={}
  &user_id={}

{
  "Authorization":   "Bearer {your_access_token}"
}
```

Response body:

```text
[
  {
    "id": "dcr_dFJiaAxbEroQ5xxx",
    "device_name": "my-device" // the value of 'device' provided in the /authorize call when creating the token
  }
]
```

To revoke a __Refresh Token__, call the [Delete a device credential](/api/management/v2#!/Device_Credentials/delete_device_credentials_by_id) endpoint with an Access Token containing `delete:device_credentials` scope and the value of `id` obtained above:

```text
DELETE https://${account.namespace}/api/v2/device-credentials/{id}

{
  "Authorization":   "Bearer {your_access_token}"
}

```

The response will be an **HTTP 204**: The credential no longer exists.

### Use the Dashboard

> Strictly speaking, the following process shows you how to revoke a user's authorized access to the application that issued the token. This renders the Refresh Token valid, which is functionally identical to revoking the token itself.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Strictly speaking, the following process shows you how to revoke a user's authorized access to the application that issued the token. This renders the Refresh Token invalid, which is functionally identical to revoking the token itself.
```

### Web Apps

All our main SDKs support Refresh Tokens out of the box. Some are [Node.js](/quickstart/webapp/nodejs), [ASP.NET Core](/quickstart/webapp/aspnet-core), [PHP](/quickstart/webapp/php), [Java](/dev-centers/java), and many more. For a complete listing, see [Quickstarts](/quickstart/webapp).

### Single Page Apps

[Silent Authentication](/api-auth/tutorials/silent-authentication) is the method that is used to refresh a token for web apps that execute in a browser. [Auth0.js](/libraries/auth0js), our client-side library, provides methods for this functionality:

- The `authorize` method, redirects the user to the `/authorize` endpoint, to log in and provide consent.
- The `parseHash` method, parses a URL hash fragment to extract the result of an Auth0 authentication response.
- The `checkSession` method, attempts to get a new token from Auth0, using [silent authentication](/api-auth/tutorials/silent-authentication). For more details refer to [Using checkSession to Acquire New Tokens](/libraries/auth0js#using-checksession-to-acquire-new-tokens).

> You can find additional information on the library in its [GitHub repository](https://github.com/auth0/auth0.js#api).

Reviewer: I would assume we'd prefer to steer people to the docs rather than the GitHub, for more info - especially because I think the new SDKs lead is in favor of lowering the amount of README info and directing people to the docs.

## Next steps

* [Refresh Tokens: When to use them and how they interact with JWTs](https://auth0.com/blog/refresh-tokens-what-are-they-and-when-to-use-them/)

> * [Using a Refresh Token with an Access Token](/tokens/set-access-token-lifetime)s

Reviewer: Random stray 's'
